---
layout: post
title: add title here
tags: post, github
---

I encounter some troublesome problems and hope that you can spare a few minutes
to help me a bit. Firstly, I gave up learning statistics but now want to resume
it. Secondly, could you please give me any ideas which may help me find a
co-researcher or anyone who would give me some advices on my master thesis?
Last, I don't know how I can complete my current study by the due time.

I got stucked in the Chapter 1, Section 3 of the r_workshop when I met a table
which shows many R "names". It reminded me that I had never studied mathematical
statistics so I should learn it first. I searched the Edx and Coursera for
statistics courses and finally chose the Stat2.x series produced by Berkeley
University on Edx. Unfortunately, I'm so stupid that it took me much more time
as I expected to finish the first course (Stat2.1x) of the triple. I was
frustrated too much to continue the rest two. Two weeks ago or earlier I found
and borrowed a book titled Statistics Explained (Third edition) written by
Perry R. Hinton in the library but have read only a little due to its
difficulty and the time limitation. With the time limitation, it relates to my
second question or concern.

I'm trying to figure out how to facilitate English as a Foreign Language (EFL)
process writing using open source tools; now only distributed version control
system like Git has been focused on given my limited horizontal. You know,
among many countries where English is being taught as a foreign language,
Chinese students behave the worse, especially in writing part. And I have taken
a writing class in Global Education delievered by a famous IELTS wring teacher,
only to find that he just taught writing the same way as my teacher did in the
high school using product-oriented approach and without any technological
assistance. I think there should be a big difference being made. But I'm taking
a risk as Prof. Zhu once opined that I may fail to graduate. To prevent such a
disaster happening I've allocated almost all my time to my master thesis. I
thought should I have your guidance to learn the statistics in a more efficient
way I would contribute to your studies in the near future sooner. If, yeah,
just if, you happenly know someone who may be researching on what I'm doing as
aforementioned, could you please let me know and then I can reach out to
him/her? Thanks a lot in advance. 

Too stupid and asocial, I have been failing since I went to here the first day.
Now it rehappens. Originally I determined to create a software based on an open
source/process approach to EFL writing but now should unwillingly repurpose it
in order to get the master's degree. Two ways, in my mind, that would help me
achieve my goal are 1) to find a job/internship in a company; and 2) to further
my study in a university under a supervisor who may be interested in the
research direction. For the first option, I've been searching for a long time
but only to find all are in abroad, such as GitHub, Penflip, Prose, and etc. I
should have dropped them a line applying for a post. But I dared not. Now
I should begin. 

I've not published a single paper, although several good opportunities were
once given. I missed them all and they will never come back as water under the
bridge. What's worse, as a byproduct never will teachers trust me and expect
anything from me again. 

...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

