---
layout: email
title: issues on today's lecture from an ECNUer
tags: culture, education
---

Dear professor Long,

I'm one of those Chinese students who luckily attended your lecture this
afternoon. I'm writing to you for asking two questions. One is about
cross-culture and another about political issues delievered by the last
lecturer. 

The cross-cultural problem is that: I think either one country fells into the
individualism or collobrism depends on the resources they have. Take for
example, in the united, people have enough resources, largely speaking energy,
to comsue, so they don't need to consider others too much because every one are
surported by enumerous resources they don't need to care that others may be lack
of them. In contrast, in China, for instance I should take care intendly about
my younger sister since the resources is limited. And I should sometimes eat
less in order for other family members to eat more. 

Do you think resource is the root source of the division when it comes to
individulism and collaborism?

The other question is about the last lecturer. I was the third person who
raised the hand to ask a question but the time didn't permist me to. The
question I wanted to ask is that since all we know that democracy is homebrew
rather than imported. So, do you think Wersterners who have been criticizing
that there is no democracy in China have a responsibility to improve the human
rights situation in other countries like China, North Corean and Iran and
others? If not, then why do you make so many activities and talk too much about
it? 

I don't have the access to that professor to ask this question. Could you
please answer it from a Westerner's perspective? Or could you please help me
send this question to that professor and give her my email? I'd like to know
her email and send this to her myself. 

Best regards,
Leo

...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

