---
layout: post
title: Hello world
tags: document management, VCS
---

Back in approximately 2011, four years ago, When I was an undergraduate, in Hunan, coding for the assignments, I thought revising, or say optimizing[parenthesis], the code I wrote was a best way to improve my programming skills. 

That time, I didn't know the term of version control, which had a history of more than forty years, the first generation of which was RCS and SCCS; and for the second generation, the client-server approach of centralized version control system, CVS is the most popular used by my previous generation[grammar]; let alone the now widely used but the then 6 years old Git, the synomy of the distributed version control system(DVCS) and even of version control nowadays. Studying in Hunan, a central province of China, I completed[word] all the work I loved to do by duplicating and renaming, just like many students and teachers still do today for their papers. They, and I years ago, name different editions by renaming them accordingly, prepending or appending the finishing date to the file name. Or just an increasing number[term]. 

Not only do these two workflows seem clumsy, but they also cannot reflect the complexity and, on a hunk-by-hunk basis, the process of the revising. In other words, it's too simple and unpractical. Comapared to tracking the changes using the morden distributed version control system Git.

By way of example, I write[term] this blog both as a 

function 1: 

function 2:



...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

