---   
layout: post   
title: Develop vocabulary using version control and natural language processing    
tags: vocabulary, git, nlp, writing   
---   
   
Like version control, there're three steps in the process of vocabulary building: staged(unknown), modified(passive), and commited(active). Staged means that Git has got to know the file. Passive vocabulary is those words you understand, but don't use in your speaking or writing. Whereas active vocabulary means words you use when you talk and write. Looking up words can only add you passive vocabulary most of the time. In what ways can we better acquire words and then turn them from passive vocabulary to active vocabulary?    
   
1. Learn categories     
    Avoid single word memorization     
    Think about groups of words     
   
How can I utilize NLTK to categorize my word book automatically? Since    
   
2. Journal & sticky notes     
    Glean words to keep in word book     
    Write sentences using them   
   
3. collocations   
    Can NLTK help me do this since it's quite hard for me to download the collocation dictionary corpus for not cost   
   
A study titiled The Impact of Task-based Extensive Reading on Lexical Collocation Knowledge of Intermediate EFL Learners done by Fatemeh Khonamri and Sakineh Roostaee(2005) claimed the fact that there is no significant difference in EFL learner's progress between the effects of form-focused and meaning-focused task. This important takeaway indicates that both the ways of aquiring language knowledge unconsciously by exposing to numerous inputs and gaining it using grammer rules intentionally almost equally matter. Some strategies listed here are form-focused like  while others are meaning-focused like Journal & sticky notes ovservation journal.

4. Mnemonics   
    My own mnemonics   
    Mnemonic Dictionary: http://mnemonicdictionary.com   
   
I already get one repo for this, I'll make a vim version like Thesaurus. And also one for collocations.   
   
5. Speak it, write it   
    Immediately, in sentence, three times a day   
   
Write everyday on Quora and for thesis   
   
6. Area specific   
    Relate words to a particular area. Make word tree, charts, wheels, etc.   
   
That's exactly what Quora for. Quora topic   
   
7. Observation journal   
    Keep a notebook for glean words when you see something name it in your native language or using photoes   
   
8. Spaced repetition(SRS)   
    www.ankisrs.net; www.omniglot.com/language/srs.php   
   
Time should be marked for reviewing   
   
Make a mobile version   

a design while developing the software
vocabnotebook#88c56d4
   
...........................        
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.   
   
