---
layout: post
title: Quora as a Enlish learning platform
tags: quora, github
---

# QandA platform

There are dozens of Q&A websites such as Answerbase.com, AnswerHub, Yahoo Answers, Ask and Answers.com and StackExchange, but just as the founder of Quora Adam D'Angelo said 'no one had come along and built something that was really good yet' the time he decided to resign from FaceBook as a CFO and establish Quora in 2009.

After Wikipedia, an other crowd-source site Quora has the second largest library of first-hand knowledge on the Web overall. And to some extent, the it is as independent as Wikipedia operated by the non-profit since its financial support mainly comes from Tiger Global who never takes a board seat in the company(Quora Raises $80 Million From Tiger Global To 'Stay Independent Forever', Konrad, Alex, Forbes.com, 4/9/2014).

Can Quora help one become a better writer? According to answers on Quora to this question, the majority of all of the 104 answerers gave a clear 'yes'. After glancing over their diverse reasons, I could like to categorize them into four main ones as follows. 

1. Quora as a corpus
Corpus, Latin for body, is linguistically defined as a collection of writings, often on a specific topic, of a specific genre, from a specific demographic, a single author etc. 

Quora can be regarded as an electronic corpus which provides English as a foreign language learners with context and problem-based examples, thus exposing learners to a daily interactional and contextualized language acquisition environment(ESL student attitudes towards corpus use in L2 writing,2004). 

2. Quora as a dictionary

Alternals: StackExchange network

StackExchange network is an excellent equivalent Q&A site, but too excellent to fit English learners who tent to write long-winded answers. Its exceeding low fault&duplication tolerance and other restrictions of overwheaming requirement of expertise.

3. Quora as a 
...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

