---    
layout: post    
title: Zsh and Gitify Everything    
tags: Zsh, github    
---    
    
A great hack! While searching for a VCS tool I encountered a guru named Richard Hartmann through whose blog I got to know `Gitigy your life` and Zsh.     
    
Can everything digital be Gitigied? I'd like to imagine a positive answer because Git is totally a rabbit hole into which diving is fascinating.     
    
Version control, especially distributed version control system Git, is versioning everything from code to law, and from text to 3D. On GitHub, varies lightweight markup languges appear, such as Markdown, MediaWiki, 3D models are being more and more easily versionizable.     
    
Utilizing this amazing technology to facilitate the editing of non-code or text is eagerly urgent in education field given that as an activity of editing or writing which needs the most keystrokes rather than mouse clicking and icons has been visualized excessively. Excessive visualization leads to disturbing writing or editing environment resulting in less effective learning process. Despite the aforementioned concern writing is a process rather than a result as the majority of students prefer to regard as.     
    
Two obstacles, at least, to the popularization of Git as a writing tool like Wiki does are the high threshold and the existing unvalued education on writing and popular misunderstanding of writing teaching in most of the counties where English is taught as a foreign language. The first reason is obvious as an elephant in the room. For the latter, by way of example China and Japan, the gap between two ends, the newbie and the master, is too large. What's worse, those who know education most likely are not familiar with programming to customize the products created by those technician who may be blind to theories of teaching and learning.     
    
Software in Japan is much advanced than that in China, but the similarity of the both is that they face the same problem of learning English as a foreign language, then I thought through studying the situation in Japan may help me a lot to make clear how to step next.    
    
Further reading:    
1. why aren't you using git flow    
1. buildamodule.com: how to use a scalable git branching model called gitflow    
1. jeffkreeftmeijer.com: using git-flow to automate your git branching workflwo    
1. vfim    
1. nvie.com: a successful git branching model    
1. GitHub: python-versioneer; vcs    
    
Zsh    
----------    
Zsh is viewed widely as a more powerful and cooler prompt than Bash.     
    
Today after experiencing this awesome tool I should admit that Zsh is way tricky than Bash. Some references can be found from these sites:      
1. Youtube: gotbletu    
1. unix.stackexchange: [share alias](http://unix.stackexchange.com/a/3445/118192)   
1. people: richardhartmann.de    
...........................         
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.    
    
