---
layout: post
title: Three pillars of the pygitquora: QandA platform, natual language processing and version control
tags: post, quora
---

For my thesis, I gather three foundations as the title listed. 


# Natual language processing
To paraphrase a Quoran, named Peter Johnston, of whom I thought as an expert of foresight, in the future there will be 2 types of person - those who tell the computer what to do, and those told what to do by computers. 

It's certain and clear that computer can be tought to glean the expertise to teach human natual languages. Since machine learning has been developing for many years since its rise in the middle of last century, natual language processing technology becomes more and more mature. All forms of text, email, webpage, subtitle and etc. are being processed by machine. But seldom can I see anyone who is harnessing this tech to facilitate the process of writing, espacially for those English as a second or foreign language learners. Every teacher no matter in the public schools or private training orgalizations is teaching in the writing class in a very traditional way with no any high technological assistance. At least, in my viewpoint and from my experience, QandA platform, natual language processing and version control system can definitely benefit and evolute this kind of text-based classes.

# Version control system: Git
Rather than a result, writing is a process starting from prewriting to the final submission. 

In this duration, many changes/versions are produced a/some particular of which would be recalled at a particular time point, in or after the process of writing. 

Students search among revisions for keeping the steps of writing before finish the first edition.

After the first edition, rewriting plays an essencial role for an excellent essay. Ernest Hemingway said that, "I rewrote the ending of Farewell to Arms, the last page of it, 39 times before I was satistified" to the question "How much rewriting do you do?" in a interview in 1956. 

"To get the words right", in words Hemingway said in that interview aforementioned, which means the pursuit of clearness and and exactness in writing, valued word, the unite of every article, very much. And absolutely, it deserves that importance.

In some difficult conditions, the writer would want to revert writings back to a previous state.

What's worse, if some versions backuped in form of files are lost or screwed up, it is irreversable and disastrous.
Updating [here](2015-6-9-Three-pillars-of-pygitquora.mkd)
# white-label solution
I need to find any white-label solutions for my new platform.

The relationship between open source and white-label solution.
White-label software is not necessarily open source. Both can prevent entrepreneur reinventing the wheel and making mistakes that others before have already made and mastered.

...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

