---
layout: post
title: add title here
tags: post, github
---

A process approach to EFL writing learning (or teaching) with support of open
source tools: taking GIT as a sample

Thanks & suggestions adopted 

Great. 
absolutely just one approach
an approach to the approach

Obviously, the title shown above can better highlight the learning process of writing
which can be facilitated effectively and intuitively by the
distributed version control system(DVCS). 

open source VS. Git is a risk management strategy

But by adding open source tools I suppose you mean that open source software
should also be discussed? Maybe in some detail?  Open source, which is
absolutely what I've studied in depth and undisputedly plays an indispensable
role in this study, seems kind of far-fetched or even unrelated to writing. In
addition, Git here does not exist as a sample because I don't mean to
generalize DVCS to any other system, let alone open source ones. Only Wiki, as
planned, will be compared against. As aforementioned, you're sharing risk
adding open source and lessing Git may further indicates that 

Why you should feel free

software development or design
I totally agree with you that time gets tough for me to develop the software
alone, but I can design the system first. 

my thoughts
So can I change it to 
The process approach to EFL writing and learning
learning from and about writing
distributed version control-Git
software design
open source 

questions

A Process Approach to EFL Writing with Support of Distributed Version Vontrol 

PS
Here is the detailed explanation of the database, the hybrid of table-oriented
database and object-oriented database approaches.
https://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/user-manual.html#the-object-database

...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

