---
layout: post
title: Three pillars of the pygitquora: QandA platform, natual language processing and version control
tags: post, quora
---

For my thesis, I gather three foundations as the title listed. 

# QandA platform

There are dozens of Q&A websites such as Answerbase.com, AnswerHub, Yahoo Answers, Ask and Answers.com and StackExchange, but just as the founder of Quora Adam D'Angelo said 'no one had come along and built something that was really good yet' the time he decided to resign from FaceBook as a CFO and establish Quora in 2009.

After Wikipedia, an other crowd-source site Quora has the second largest library of first-hand knowledge on the Web overall. And to some extent, the it is as independent as Wikipedia operated by the non-profit since its financial support mainly comes from Tiger Global who never takes a board seat in the company(Quora Raises $80 Million From Tiger Global To 'Stay Independent Forever', Konrad, Alex, Forbes.com, 4/9/2014).

Can Quora help one become a better writer? According to answers on Quora to this question, the majority of all of the 104 answerers gave a clear 'yes'. After glancing over their diverse reasons, I could like to categorize them into four main ones as follows. 

1. Quora as a corpus
Corpus, Latin for body, is linguistically defined as a collection of writings, often on a specific topic, of a specific genre, from a specific demographic, a single author etc. 

Quora can be regarded as an electronic corpus which provides English as a foreign language learners with context and problem-based examples, thus exposing learners to a daily interactional and contextualized language acquisition environment(ESL student attitudes towards corpus use in L2 writing,2004). 

2. Quora as a dictionary

Alternals: StackExchange network

StackExchange network is an excellent equivalent Q&A site, but too excellent to fit English learners who tent to write long-winded answers. Its exceeding low fault&duplication tolerance and other restrictions of overwheaming requirement of expertise.

# Natual language processing
To paraphrase a Quoran, named Peter Johnston, of whom I thought as an expert of foresight, in the future there will be 2 types of person - those who tell the computer what to do, and those told what to do by computers. 

It's certain and clear that computer can be tought to glean the expertise to teach human natual languages. Since machine learning has been developing for many years since its rise in the middle of last century, natual language processing technology becomes more and more mature. All forms of text, email, webpage, subtitle and etc. are being processed by machine. But seldom can I see anyone who is harnessing this tech to facilitate the process of writing, espacially for those English as a second or foreign language learners. Every teacher no matter in the public schools or private training orgalizations is teaching in the writing class in a very traditional way with no any high technological assistance. At least, in my viewpoint and from my experience, QandA platform, natual language processing and version control system can definitely benefit and evolute this kind of text-based classes.

# white-label solution
I need to find any white-label solutions for my new platform.

The relationship between open source and white-label solution.
White-label software is not necessarily open source. Both can prevent entrepreneur reinventing the wheel and making mistakes that others before have already made and mastered.

...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

