---
layout: post
title: How the network works
tags: network 
---

Key words
-------
1. *Client and server*: they're not processes and not machines, or hosts as they are often called in this context.
1. *Network*: To a host, a network is just another I/O device that serves as a source and sink for data.
1. *Adapter*: An adapter plugged into an expansion slot on the I/O bus provides the physical interface to the network.
1. *Ethernet segment*: An Ethernet segment consists of some wires(usually twisted pairs of wires) and a small box called a hub, typically spanning small areas, such as a room or a floor in a building.
1. *Frame*: A chunk of bits sent by a host to any other host on the segment.
1. *Packet*: Different networking technologies have different and incompatible ways of encoding bits on wires and of packaging these bits frames. The internet protocol smoothes these differences by defining a uniform way to bundle up data bits into discrete chunks called packets.
1. *Bridged Ethernet*: Multiple Ethernet segments can be connected into larger LANs, called bridged Ethernets, using a set of wires and small boxes called bridges.
1. *Routers*: Specialized computers used to connect multiple incompatible LANs to form an internet.
1. *process*: The process on one Internet host can communicate with a process on any other Internet host over a connection.
Problems
-------
1. Normally, when a client needs service, it *initiates* a transaction by sending a request to the server. My question is can it works reversely?
1. Since a router, in nature, is a computer, is there any software which can make a computer functions as a router? Using such a tool, I can connect four OSs to form a LAN without employing a real router, in a virtual way.
1. It's said that each Ethernet adapter has a globally unique 48-bit address that is stored in a non-volatile memory on the adapter. Then, what's the difference between this address and the 32-bit IP address.
...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

