---
layout: post
title: How to react under the pressure of being isolated
tags: anxiety, plan
---

Stigma that I come from a undeveloped area and was born into a poor family and then went to a diploma mill has been making me embarrassed and somehow motivated. But that was the past, and I should look forward. 

Following no any project with any classmate, I have been steeped in my own for about one and a half year. But without any positive result yet. What's worse, they isolate me from almost anyone. Truely spoken, I isolated myself from others. What should I do?

I'm at stake, I know. What do I want to do now? A application which would assist English learners while writing.

I cannot find what I want to do both for others and myself. That's really a pitty.

After having a talk with Yu, I should gear up for the thesis of which the draft should have been finished at the middle of this Desember.

Two innovations of my thesis are using the version control system Git as a tool for facilitating the process of writing; and employing natural language processing as the assistant for the writer. But now I'm still preparing the basic functions for them and standing still without any progress. 

For the articles I thought should be fetched from Quora can be easily obtained from a existing vim pluging: the hackernews, but rather than a writing-provoking platform like Quora it's actually a journal for just reading. Transfering it to what I want is really a tall order for me now. Crawling articles from Quora is not the essential part of my job.

I have only finished 75 pages of the Git handbook. So next month, this book is the first priority followed by nltk.

Due to the time limitation, the strategy should be more flexible now. Reading more papers and writing more to prepare myself for the comming graduation oral examination were what Yu placed emphasis on in the meeting that this noon. She also figured out that I need not to realize all functions I want, just suggest if they're done what the meanings are according to theories of process writing. 

...........................     
Welcome proofreading help and language suggestions. Tons of thanks in advance.

